then we got Aran I always have to shout
him out because he was the first one in
the first week or so to reach out to me
like cool Discord Community but it
sucks he didn't really say like that but
sort of he's been a Deen himself I think
he knew he knew about every single
Discord feature that you could build in
we now have a bot that basically tracks
a lot of stuff that also tracks the
amount of GMS people say every single
week so we have a GM Leaderboard on the
back end
[Music]
it's GM GM GM welcome back to the PBC
Mastery podcast and today we have
another exciting episode because we're
going to be talking about the origin
story of our Discord community and
origin story of the PPC Hub and that's
how it was called up until a few weeks
ago yeah we decided to Rebrand
everything decided to Rebrand everything
and why and how we'll get to that but in
this episode we're going to be talking
about yeah how it all came about and
yeah it started last year in June right
before we were launching PBC Mastery or
before we even started to work together
we didn't even do our webinar yet so
that was before you reached out to me I
launched Discord Community for Google ad
Specialists because I was in a lot of
nft crypto communities and they were all
in Discord so a lot of there were a lot
of a lot of smaller communities on
LinkedIn Facebook Facebook groups
LinkedIn groups but most of it was quite
scattered and quite inactive inactive as
well and hard to manage and some groups
had a lot of members like let's say
100,000 or so but then yeah there was no
activity because those groups are hard
to find when you're on LinkedIn and no
notifications and whatever so then I
thought okay I'm in these nft
communities in Discord and it's it's
really fun why don't I just try and
create something like that for Google
ads so I created a post on LinkedIn and
I think a lot of around 250 people or so
already wanted to join from from that
moment so then I thought okay maybe
maybe we're on to something here it's a
nice nft launch nice nft launch yeah
geted wanted to scam with my nft launch
no no no and then I I thought okay I'm
going to build this Discord and you were
actually one of the first people first
people to join in those first days most
of those guys that joined then are still
really active now like let's say one of
the top contributors yeah absolutely so
how how was it called oh yeah back then
back then it was called miles PBC Hub
kind of similar we just removed miles
yeah cuz I I I didn't really have
inspiration but I liked PPC Hub as sort
of the central place for everything PPC
and then I just put my name on it sort
of to Brand it that way yeah it was
great personal branding yeah and you
were one of the first to join and you
introduced the meme culture that we that
we have now and that everybody loves so
yeah maybe I can ask you already like
why did you want to join the the Discord
and why were you so active in the
beginning because that was for everybody
listening that was before bpc Mastery
that was before we even thought about
working together you were already like
on it quickly yeah yeah I think I I
really I really had the urge to to start
something similar or at least join
something like the miles PPC Hub back
then uh because yeah the all of the the
groups that were that were live in
inside of Facebook inside of LinkedIn
they all were quite inactive or it
wasn't really possible to to join them
because you you had this sense of like
like there was some kind of barrier and
not really it was wasn't really
welcoming at all and since this was a
new thing and we already knew each other
and we we already had some people
floating around in our in both of our
spaces I thought like hey if we can do
this together right from the start we
can create something real real great and
real nice M and I really hadn't the the
ID to the idea to to to create it
together I just wanted to be part of it
from the first moment so I've been
freelancing for eight plus years already
you've been freelancing as well for
quite some years and the thing you miss
when freelancing is well our like-minded
people entrepreneurs doing the same
thing and they are hard to find
especially in the region we grew we grew
up in the eastern part of of the
Netherlands and and by joining a
community like the one you had created
you had the feeling that you actually
had some some like-minded colleagues
almost colleagues sitting next to you
that you were able to connect with to to
discuss ideas with strategies tactics so
that really really intrigued me so
that's when I decided to join yeah
that's really cool because that was the
the main goal as well the idea was not
to build something that I could monetize
because it was free everybody can free
join for free not not even email optin
and then inside I just created a few
different channels where people can just
hang out ask questions help each other
out and I created it from that
perspective for everybody to just learn
from each other but then you came and
the first thing you told me is okay
miles where's the meme Channel we got to
have memes where's the memes so then I
thought okay let's let's build a memes
Channel and you dropped the first Meme
and since then I think that's one of the
most popular channels next to the GM
channel it's been it's been a bit quiet
lately but yeah I haven't created any
meme in the past couple of weeks but
during the first couple of weeks I had
this Mission I have to create at least
three kickass memes for for Mouse PPC
channel to to to get to give it some
traction and that worked because other
people started to double in as well um
create fancy memes yeah I really really
enjoyed that that time yeah and I think
it it translates also to outside of the
PBC up back then in Discord because you
see a lot of PBC memes on LinkedIn now
as well
no as you can see Max minus yeah a lot
of guys are are posting memes now and
they're really funny like Custom Custom
PBC m not the ones you find online in
reposting like people are actually
trying their best to to create good
memes Max even even films himself
pretending to be like a Teleperformance
rep the first the first couple of videos
really I I I lost my ass off they were
so funny yeah absolutely and that really
built the culture of of the The Hub back
then in this and that attracted a lot of
other people because I think in the
beginning a lot of Freelancers joined
because as you said Freelancers are
looking for people around them to learn
from and and get inspired and bounce an
idea off of because if you're working by
yourself then yeah that can become
really hard because you if you work at
agency you can ask five people maybe if
you're encountering a problem but then
after after that the Freelancers were
there and we had the culture with the
memes Etc and then the word started to
spread and got more people in mhm people
were working inhouse people were working
at agencies so it was not only a
freelance Community it was like people
from all over from all over the world as
well so so yeah and then we got Aran I
always have to shout him out because he
was the first one in the first week or
so to reach out to me like cool Discord
Community but it
sucks he didn't really say like that but
sort of he's been a DJ himself I think
he knew he knew about every single
Discord feature that you could build in
we now have a bot that basically tracks
a lot of stuff that also tracks the
amount of GMS people say every single
week so we have a GM Leaderboard on the
back end yeah in case you in case we are
going to share the amount of GMS you you
you have shared in the past sometimes
it's a lot it's a lot it's really a lot
but yeah Arian introduced the question
Forum function a lot of pro protective
measures around fraudulent activities we
sometimes still have scammers around
that pretend to be crypto scamers crypto
scammers so we try to to ban them ASAP
and these kind of these kinds of bots
and the automation Aran build in
actually help prevent those kind of
things and make it safer for all of the
members yeah absolutely and he was
running Minecraft communities back in
the day I think and managing them so he
already had the experience and he he off
just basically offered me okay I can I
have some ideas he didn't want anything
in return He said I'll do it for free
and then he built out a new template for
the Discord community and that's
something that we still use now like you
said the questions Forum that made it a
lot more easier to see the questions
answer the questions we I don't know how
many questions we get per day I think
it's like 20 or 30 questions each each
day so that's like thousand plus per
month yeah because there's in the first
year we built it to more than 7,000
people right now so that's that's really
crazy but yeah Arion really helped us a
lot in the in the early days but now
yeah it's it's it's grown like like
crazy and you can see a lot of
connections are being built up by
community members um we we have a lot of
people that that actually found each
other through the community community
and actually became friends a lot of
people yeah Partners have become
Partners they're sharing business
opportunities so we have I think Arian
found Flores through the community we
have Nick for Marin I think he received
a lot of gf4 GTM taging work out of the
community just by helping out people so
not asking anything in return but these
these guys actually build a brand a
personal brand and show their expertise
and people people noticed and now they
know hey if I have a GTM gf4 related
problem then I have to DM this guy and
maybe ask if he can help me out for some
pesos yeah so that's amazing to see yeah
yeah same thing with for example uh so
most people call him gir
Groot uh it
is he position himself as the the the
local small count Legion guy we have
Adrian deer with with his news updates
and like a lot of share sharing pepc
newsletters inside of the community
every single week so he he doesn't skip
a day it's so amazing to see all the
contributions absolutely and then you of
course the meme Lord yeah yeah once
again I'm I'm cooling off so I have to
have to redo some mem again we have we
have other stuff to to do right now yeah
no but I think that we got a lot of
highlights in the in the first year as I
said built it to more than 7,000 people
but that also means that there's some
problems or challenges that are that
we're facing with the Discord Community
because one it's free anybody can join
there's no opin there's no screening
there is a yeah Discord can be anonymous
so it's you're open to trolling you're
open to bots you're open to scammers
which we have like you said people
coming in if you want to make 80k in the
next 30 days send me message like
guaranteed blah blah blah ban yeah Perma
ban kicked them out but also the
questions Channel even though a lot of
guys like if yatar for example I have to
shout him out too because he's so active
in helping people find the answers to
their such a legend but the questions
channel is also being flooded with more
beginner questions or people that are
maybe not reading really well and and
dropping the questions in the wrong
chats or asking about meta instead of of
bpc or Google Google ads and it's
becoming a little bit messy not to say
that it's not good because we're still
in there and it's still a lot of fun and
it's nice to see everybody in there but
it is challenging because it's a free
thing it's open and it yeah just means
there's challenges we do not want to
screen at all we do not want to say to a
beginner hey this this community isn't
for you if you're just starting out you
need at least 6 months of experience
before we let you in we do not want that
in a free community abolutely but that
means that we we definitely see an
increase in beginner related questions
inside of the question Channel and for
the advanced more seasoned PPC
professionals that's starting to
deteriorate the community a little bit
so that's why we have come up with a
different idea yeah that's exactly so it
was called the PPC Hub in Discord and
the reason why is because we wanted to
build the main area the main hub for
everything related to PPC so courses and
and community events and just have that
Central place for if you have something
that just stuck on a PBC just boom you
go to the PPC Hub but because of those
challenges that we just discussed that
you get when you grow maybe to Beyond a
certain point when especially when it's
free then yeah we decided that we wanted
to go a different direction and we
rebranded the Discord Community which is
going to stay the same we're not going
to close it or anything we love it it's
it's great it's also great for PPC
mastery we rebranded that to the PPC
Mastery Discord and now we've created a
new platform called the PPC Hub because
we we were going back and forth a lot
about the name for the new platform
right yeah we've been discussing the
name part for I think at least two
months yeah going back and forth yeah we
should do this oh no we should do this
instead so that's been been quite quite
challenging for sure and we always came
back to or at least I did always yeah
you as well came back to the PPC hub or
the inner or the Inner Circle exactly it
was a great name as well Mastery the
Inner Circle but yeah it didn't say
anything about the community at all
what's inside what's inside the Inner
Circle so yeah and yeah that's when we
when we decided to okay we're going to
Rebrand the Discord and maybe in the
beginning that can be a little bit vague
to people they don't understand what's
going on but didn't really get too many
questions about it people don't care
like it's the PBC Mastery it's the
Discord as long as they have access to
all of the free stuff then yeah exactly
and inside nothing changed it's
completely the same and then we just
took that name the PPC Hub and used that
for our new membership our new platform
which is going to launch somewhere in
September end of September and this new
membership is is basically solving that
issue that we had with the Discord that
we can now create a platform where we
have all of our courses all of our
trainings all of our programs live
workshops a lot of we've had guest
workshops now from profit metrics we
have one with channal
product Heroes on the list true clicks
on the list so getting a lot of external
knowledge as well but we're also doing
community events like round taes where
we sat with four or five members and
then just discussed different strategies
and tactics and then yeah the vision
with that is to create a community or
maybe not Community is maybe not even
the right word but a membership with
really high level Google ad Specialists
that all want to be the best in the
field and all want to help each other
and they want to infest in themselves to
become the best version of themselves
yeah so it's it's not going to be free
it's it's a me it's a membership
Community with a lot of extra perks so
it's an sort of an all access pass to
all of the products we are selling right
now and all of the future products we're
going to release so if you decide to
become a member you have access to all
of our stuff from courses to resources
but also not only the courses but Al
also all the additional stuff yeah like
the guest Workshops the roundtables the
monthly Advanced workshops that are live
that we that we give but also yeah
external knowledge that we are bringing
in so it's going to be a great platform
for everyone that wants to well increase
their skill set yeah and you see the
level of the questions in there is
really high like we had a Q&A and we
went really deep on poas for example a
question from ymer that those are the
things that we really enjoy you know the
questions that we get and we try to find
the answers to every question and it's
not only us people are also helping each
other out and it's just yeah it's it's
really cool and I think it's quite
interesting to talk about how we
launched that as well because that in
there there's some marketing lessons as
well I think cuz we launched it on the
back of our last Google ads masterclass
which was ended in middle of June mhm
and then we said okay we're going to
launch this new platform new membership
with 50 members the capping it at 50 we
call it 50 founding members and then
although members got exclusive perks so
dis 50% discount on the on the regular
price small community at small community
exactly so a lot of extra support from
us one-on-one call with me everybody to
to on board and all that stuff so a lot
of extra additional perks for those
people and then we said okay we're we're
locking it for with 50 people and then
we took I think it's probably around 3
months or so before we even open the
doors again for the weit list for the
for the weit list exactly exactly so
because we wanted to learn first we
wanted to build out the ideal platform
in terms of channels
resources concept and we are actually
asking all of the founding members to
help us out by creating the best
possible Google ads membership that is
out there so they have come they they
have brought us so many great ideas
already so yeah that's one of the perks
as well they are essentially creating
their own ideal per product so yeah yeah
we're building it with them together
yeah instead of us just building what we
think is is best we're really
incorporate the feedback of all the
founding members yeah we are even
prioritizing our product launches based
on the the priorities or the yeah the
priorities the members are giving us so
hey okay here's a list of all the things
that we can create the coming 12 months
please vote please sort the list based
on what you think is the most helpful
for you or the most impactful so that's
why we launched a search Mastery last
week that's that's why we are
prioritizing a shopping Mastery right
now and after that optimization Mastery
reporting Mastery all of these highly
specific courses and they have been
prioritized mainly by the founding
members yeah yeah and we also noticed
that a lot of members were interested in
strategies to get clients and then we
had some stuff for for those things so
it's really cool to to build that up
together with with with with all the
with all of the members and that's kind
of the future of the PPC Hub so the
Discord PPC Master Discord is definitely
going to stay stay the same as it is
we're going to continue to keep growing
that but as a result yeah you're you're
going to see people leave because they
think maybe the levels is is getting
dragged down even though the questions
are still are still fine but some people
will think okay at first it was really
nice because it was smaller we had uh
grip on high level of questions now
they're leaving those are exactly the
people that that is great for the new
peoplec up membership because then we
can maintain that that high level but
the Discord is always going to be there
it's it's like the backbone of how we of
how we grew and it's much more for
posting and all of our degenerate stuff
and the the GMS and and everything but
then for the Google ad specialist that
really want to take it to the next level
with us we're launching the the PPC Hub
yeah in in a few weeks yeah and and in
terms of well the the product lettering
inside of PPC Mastery this will be our
hero product right yeah absolutely yeah
so everything that we do will be mainly
focused on building out the membership
Community The bpc Hub and constantly
refining the the membership constantly
adding new products resources there will
be additional separate products that we
are going to sell but like the search
Mastery that we just launched right now
is just for the PPC Hub members only
we're not selling it as a separate
product so so yeah that's what you can
expect as well yeah that's why that's
how we want to create unique value for
that membership so then people have more
reason more reason to join to join and I
think that's also in in in marketing you
also want to uh give exclusive benefits
for for people to either get get an
offer or especially on on Black Friday
like that that also creates a little bit
of of scarcity and and urgency and and
uniqueness which is which is really
really important so so back to the
marketing you you launched the PC hop
for just 50 founding members during our
last master class in May or June how
have you been doing the marketing from
there because right now we are having a
wait list can you tell something more
about that specific strategy or tactic
yeah it's interesting cuz Alex Orosi
just released this new hundred million
leads book so for everybody that doesn't
know Alex Orosi you're missing out
you're missing out for sure yeah big
time this guy is the modern day yeah I
don't even know what you would call him
but he's the the bu marketing genius
business guy right now who actually has
a proven track record of building
businesses and now he's much more of an
investor and he's giving away a lot of
value for free and his first book $100
million offers really solid in getting
the idea in how to build offers that are
so good people feel stupid saying no
that's what we got got from him and the
second book is $100 million leads and in
this leads book he has a framework and
it's called I I have to look it up but
it's
whisper
I think something like say or I don't I
don't know what the second part is yeah
the book hasn't been shipped yet yeah
exactly we ordered it so it's it's
coming soon but I remember the I know
what the framework is I just don't know
the name but it's either it's whisper
something like say and then shout so
it's a three-step framework to launching
something and the first part is just
whispering and that means like you're
being really quiet about it and here and
there you're just dropping like oh by
the way we're doing this we're we're
launching a new a new product and how we
did that is for example Le just
underneath our our post on LinkedIn in
the comments like oh by the way we're
launching a new product this is what it
is here's the you can join the weight
list and then no making no noise at all
nothing just whisper and then we got
some people on the weit list and then
the next stage is where we are basically
sort of right now we're explaining what
the product is and we're being a bit
more vocal about it and we're teasing a
bit more maybe it's tease the middle
part I will look it up after this and
we're teasing a bit more and and more
actively sharing about what's coming and
then we have about four or five weeks
now until it's going to be launched and
then it's the last part is shout just
bye now by
now but then that's the the part when
you actually launch it yeah of course
you want to create as much noise as you
can around the launch and that's going
to be yeah in in a few weeks time we
will up our communication about the
product but we're we're never going to
be aggressive in our marketing like I
think how we did our marketing up until
now is really really like organic it's
all inbound inbound we haven't infested
at all maybe we we experimented with
just one branded search campaign inside
of Google ads true that we bed yeah I
think after the the first week yeah
right yeah we we haven't we haven't
spent $1 at LinkedIn advertising meta
ads nothing all is inbound no and I
don't really intend to do that either
because we're building our personal
Brands and inbound as you said is the
best because then if we have a newslet
for example we always put underneath
like oh whenever you're ready here's how
we can help you and then there's three
offers and maybe
0.1% clicks and buy something perfect
but people will see it every time they
open a newsletter exactly if they tend
to scroll down yeah to read the the
whole and if they don't it's also fine
then maybe maybe another day like I'm
not going to be pushing anyone no we're
not aggressive until we're going to
shout until we're going to shout until
we shout so during product launches we
we tend to monetize on the the well the
data base that we have the Emil list
that we have created but yeah that's how
that's how we we we shout that's how we
that's how we Market our products yeah
and that's I mean that's that's just a
product launch so we're not going to DM
people and say you need to buy now and
if we send an email then it's okay this
is the offer maybe on the last day like
uh 24 hours left and then that's it like
no no crazy tactics just just fits our
personality no no no
no and if you don't want to that's also
fine not going to force you to to do
anything there's plenty of free stuff on
our newsletter on YouTube like this
podcast so yeah if if you do not want to
pay or you do not have the budget to pay
then we're sharing as much as free stuff
already so yeah we're not forcing our
products upon people definitely not yeah
yeah I think that's kind of the the
story of of the PPC up how it came
together and where we're where we're
going do do you have an idea actually
maybe like what do you foresee for this
in let's say the upcoming year year or
so what do you cuz you're the Builder
Bob the
Builder what do you foresee like what do
you actually want to create you know I
know we have our our road map and
everything and we're shifting it based
on what people are saying but what's
your vision for for the product side
yeah so we have a lot a lot a lot to
ship so we're building stuff together
but sometimes even since we're almost
doing this full-time now we sometimes
feel that there's not not enough hours
inside of a week and things are not
shipping as soon as we we hoped to ship
all of the products but the the the main
thing that we always want is to maintain
a specific quality level so everything
we ship I think is of great quality so
we have updo quality game we are really
spending a lot of energy and time inside
of our decks or resources that we're
launching right now recording quality
recording quality so it yeah basically
it make that results in the planning
being a little bit longer yeah but I
think for the for the next couple of 12
months we will still be shipping Google
ads related mini courses so we have
shipped performance Max Mastery right
now search Mastery conversion tracking
Mastery but we still have a lot a lot to
do we want to ship creative Mastery
where where we're going to zoom in on
all of the asset types that you can
possibly create inside of Google ads
rsas rdas rvas HTML 5 banners utilizing
third party tools to create really fancy
banners AI generated or not whatever
besides that strategy goal setting upper
funnel Mastery YouTube Discovery is
going away so YouTube demand gen display
then we have some then we have a a
Mastery course about bidding bidding
strategies just really being Niche and
specific zooming in on bidding
strategies and how to set your targets
how to optimize your targets during the
optimization phase
and then we have one of the biggest
bigger Parts the optimization Mastery so
that's where we're going to touch on
everything that we haven't been
discussing during the foundational
courses like the ones I just mentioned
so in that course we're going to zoom in
on all of the optimization tactics that
you as an Advertiser can use to increase
your Roi inside of your Google ads
campaigns from search to shopping to
display to YouTube to demand gen so it's
going to be a very very very extensive
course with a lot of resources I think
that will I think that will take at
least two maybe 3 months to complete
since it's so big it's going to be so
valuable I already know that
optimization templates schedules stuff
like that and then I think we are
already in May June of the next year and
on that point we can start to think
about well adding in some some other
courses as well so think about landing
page Mastery offer refining offer
creation so everything that is outside
of Google ads because that part is so so
so freaking important and I think a lot
of people are talking about that
specific part but no one is actually
doing anything about it so they're
saying oh yeah you need to have a great
landing page with a lot of social proof
and a lot of urgency and some great
above the Vault headlines and call to
actions but no one is actually teaching
that inside of a really specific course
so that's on our list as well and once
we have finalized all of that it's going
to be refinement after refinement after
refinement because yeah Google ads
updates like crazy nowadays so we have
to re reccord everything that we have
recorded in the past we have to rewrite
resources and we have to optimize the
courses based on feedback that we that
came that came in so there's so much to
do so much busy for years to come yeah
yeah we are so it's it's almost
impossible if you want to do this
besides your your freelancing gig or at
all or at all you need to be really
dedicated in order to push all of these
products yeah and and which we are still
doing like freelance clients but now
it's obviously much smaller than before
but we now the clients also that we work
with we still help them grow as much as
we can but it's also a function for us
to get insights and then share that with
the community share that with everybody
build those are the clients that we have
like a card blanch for that we can do
whatever we want clients are happy with
us experimenting inside of the accounts
and we need that in order to produce the
latest content that actually works
because we do not want to sound like a
broken record or like a Google Google
replica of everything they push
everything we push is basically based on
everything that works for us or have not
worked for us so we want to be
independent and in order to be
independent we need to have our own our
own accounts so that's still an
important part of the week yeah but yeah
we had to to scale it down in order to
push the products because you you cannot
do both you cannot do both yeah yeah cuz
I think people often underestimate how
much time it costs I also underestimate
it still how much you just updated pmax
yeah I just yeah we just relaunched
performance Max Mastery and yeah and it
it takes so much time to do do the decks
redo the filming the editing uploading
even you also forget like some you need
a day to upload everything and make sure
that it's all the the text is in there
as well you don't forget a video so yeah
takes a lot of time and brain power as
well you you you have that with your
voice like if you're recording for four
five six hours then your voice is just
dead yeah
yeah we've been recording a podcast for
six hours this is number eight for
today no yeah yeah it's exhausting it's
exhausting so it's really doable but you
have to find a great balance in your
working week uh and I think we have
found that balance right now and now
it's a matter of well pushing products
as soon as possible while creating free
content while staying inside of the PPC
Hub to answer Advanced questions while
still doing work for our own clients so
it's it's it's it's a little bit of
juggling here and there but I think we
found a great balance where we can
actually maintain everything and still
manage to grow and push ship new
products basically yeah all right so
yeah I think that's a pretty cool origin
story of the Discord community of the
Hub the new pc Hub where we're we're
moving towards so when is this episode
actually actually launching next week
next week no two weeks two weeks right
so that is beginning of September which
means that by the time that this
launches it's about three more weeks we
will be shouting we'll be shouting yeah
if you hear us shouting then you know
where we
are but yeah for now we're still
Whispering we're still like teasing so
if you want to join the wait list maybe
maybe we will put the link in the
description maybe we won't I tend to
forget those things yeah we'll see by
the time this podcast is live we have a
landing page I guess yeah if not you can
go to PBC mastery.com you will find it
yeah maybe we'll we'll add it maybe we
won't but yeah I think this was pretty
cool episode any closing closing remarks
from you nope NOP that's it all good so
thank you all foren listening viewing
don't forget to like subscribe obviously
always and yeah if you found this
valuable please do share it with yeah
colleague or or friend or or give us a
rating on Spotify or apple podcast so it
shows up a little bit more yeah me pleas
R me rate me please all right so that
was it for this episode and we'll see
you in the next one peace
[Music]
ciao